# How To Create Linux Environment

## Before You Start

- I will use the following terms in this document. Please refer to the definitions below for each term.

  - `IaaS`: A provider that offers servers and interfaces
  - `Server`: A server machine built on IaaS or prepared for server use
  - `Host`: A local environment machine used to access and operate the Server
  - `JumpServer`: A bastion server placed between Host and Server for access control
  - `key`: An SSH key pair used for authentication via SSH certificates

- This guide assumes that both the Server and Host are running Linux (Ubuntu/Debian based).
- This guide assumes that the user has `root` privileges on the Server immediately after it is launched. If you have already created and are using a non-`root` account, use `sudo` as needed.

## Creating a Server

Follow the steps provided by your provider to launch a server machine.

## Network Configuration

If the machine is not connected to a network (not configured), follow the steps below to configure it.

### Check NIC

Run `ip -br a` to check the ID of the NIC you will use.

### Create Configuration File

Place the network configuration `yaml` file under `/etc/netplan/`.

Example: Ethernet configuration (using NIC `eth0`, default gateway `192.168.0.1`, DHCP)

```yaml
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
    eth0:
      dhcp4: yes
      dhcp6: yes
      routes:
        - to: default
          via: 192.168.0.1
      nameservers:
        addresses:
          - 8.8.8.8
          - 1.1.1.1
```

#### JumpServer Configuration

##### JumpServer `yaml`

```yaml
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
    eth0:
      dhcp4: yes
      dhcp6: yes
      routes:
        - to: default
          via: 192.168.0.1
      nameservers:
        addresses:
          - 8.8.8.8
          - 1.1.1.1
    eth1:
      addresses:
        - 192.168.1.1/24
```

##### Internal Network Server `yaml`

```yaml
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
    eth0:
      
```

## Preparing for SSH Certificate Authentication

### Generating a key

On the Host, run the following command to generate a key pair for SSH certificate authentication.

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa
```

When you run the command, you will be prompted to specify the output location and set a password for the key. Follow the prompts to complete the setup.

1. Specify the output location (Default: `~/.ssh/id_rsa`)
2. Set a password (choose a strong, hard-to-guess password)
3. Confirm the password (enter the same password as in step `2`)

Once the setup is complete, a key image will be displayed on the screen.

At the specified output location, a pair of files will be generated: one with the `.pub` extension and one without an extension. The file with the `.pub` extension is the public key, and the file without an extension is the private key.

The file without an extension is the private key, so *never expose it outside the Host (including other Hosts).*  
If possible, it is preferable to use separate certificates for the JumpServer and the Server.

### Setting the Public Key on the Server

#### If Using IaaS

- From the IaaS management dashboard, set the public key generated by [Generating a key](#generating-a-key) on the server.
- If there is no menu for setting the public key, follow the steps in [If Not Using IaaS](#if-not-using-iaas).

#### If Not Using IaaS

1. Access the Server
   - If SSH password authentication is enabled, connect from the Host to the Server via SSH
   - If password authentication has already been disabled, operate the Server machine directly (if using IaaS, access the console from the management dashboard)
2. Start the SSH service

   - Run the following command to check the status of the service

    ```bash
    systemctl status ssh
    ```

   - If the service is already running, proceed to step `3`
   - If the service is not running, start the service with the following command

    ```bash
    systemctl start ssh
    ```

3. Save the public key
   - Copy the contents of the public key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`
   - If there are already other key entries, add the new key below them
   - If the file does not exist, create a new one
4. Disable password authentication
   - To disable password authentication, edit `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` and uncomment (`#`) the `PasswordAuthentication` line, then change the value from `yes` to `no`
   - Similarly, if `ChallengeResponseAuthentication` and `UsePAM` exist, uncomment them and change the value to `no`
   - Before restarting `sshd`, test the configuration with the following command to ensure there are no errors in the configuration file. If there are errors, they will be displayed in the output.

      ```bash
      sshd -t
      ```

   - If the test is successful, nothing will be displayed, so if nothing is displayed, restart `sshd` with the following command

      ```bash
      systemctl restart ssh
      ```

## Connecting via SSH

### Basic Connection (Directly to Server)

```bash
ssh [target_user]@[target_host]
```

If you need to specify a certificate/port, use the following command

```bash
ssh [target_user]@[target_host] -i /path/to/identity/file -p [port]
# or
# ssh [target_user]@[target_host]:[port] -i /path/to/identity/file
```

### Connecting via JumpServer

```bash
ssh -J [jump_user]@[jump_host] [target_user]@[target_host]
```

If you need to specify separate certificates for the JumpServer and the Server, use the following command

```bash
ssh [target_user]@[target_host] -i ~/.ssh/target_key -o ProxyCommand="ssh [jump_user]@[jump_host] -i ~/.ssh/jump_key -W %h:%p"
```

### Using `config`

If you need to connect via a JumpServer or specify a special certificate, you can use the `~/.ssh/config` file to simplify the process.

Example `config`:

```text
Host JumpServer1
  Hostname jump1.IP
  User user_on_jump1
  IdentityFile /path/to/identity/file_jump1

Host JumpServer2
  Hostname jump2.IP
  User user_on_jump2
  ProxyJump JumpServer1
  IdentityFile /path/to/identity/file_jump2

Host TargetServer
  Hostname dest.IP
  User dest_user_name
  ProxyJump JumpServer2
  IdentityFile /path/to/identity/file_target
```

Example connection using the above `config`:

```bash
ssh TargetServer
# If you need to specify a config file
# ssh -F /path/to/config TargetServer
```

## Configuring the Firewall

### Installing `ufw`

If `ufw` is not installed, install it using the following commands:

```bash
apt update
apt install ufw
```

### Adding Rules

If you need to add firewall rules, use the following commands.

#### Allow

```bash
ufw allow [from {IP} to any port] {PORT}
```

To allow access to port 443 (HTTPS) from all IPs, use the following command

```bash
ufw allow 443
# or
# ufw allow HTTPS
```

To allow access to port 22 (SSH) from a specific IP (e.g., 210.136.3.82), use the following command

```bash
ufw allow from 210.136.3.82 to any port 22
```

#### Deny

```bash
ufw deny [from {IP} to any port] {PORT}
```

To deny all access from a specific IP, use the following command

```bash
ufw deny from 210.136.3.82
```

### Deleting Rules

To delete a `ufw` rule, use the following commands:

```bash
# Check the status and current rules of ufw
ufw status [numbered]

# Delete a rule by specifying its index in the rule list
ufw delete {rule_index_No}
```

### Enabling `ufw`

To enable the firewall, use the following command

```bash
ufw enable
```

*If you are connected via SSH, make sure to add a rule to allow SSH (port 22) connections **before** enabling `ufw`.*  
If you enable `ufw` before adding the rule, you will be locked out of the server and will not be able to connect via SSH until you either add the rule or disable `ufw`.

### Disabling `ufw`

To disable the firewall, use the following command

```bash
ufw disable
```

## Account Management

- Accounts should be issued for each user whenever possible
  - This allows for easier tracking of who did what and when through logs
  - By limiting permissions, the impact of any accidental operations can be minimized
  - By distributing permissions, security risks can also be distributed
- Create groups for each project
  - Assign groups only to project members
  - Control permissions to prevent access to data unrelated to the project
- Remove users from the `sudo` group unless they need to perform special operations
- Only your company's employees (or environment administrators) should be able to use the `root` user account

### Adding User Accounts

Issue an account for each connecting user.

- This allows for easier tracking of who did what and when through logs.
- By limiting permissions, the impact of any accidental operations can be minimized.
- By distributing permissions, security risks can also be distributed.

#### Creating an Account

1. To add an account, run the following command:

    ```bash
    adduser [new_user_name]
    ```

2. Follow the prompts to set the new user's password.
3. Provide additional information as prompted, if necessary.

### Managing User Groups

#### Adding a User to a Group

```bash
usermod -aG group1,group2 user_name
```

#### Removing a User from a Group

```bash
deluser user_name group_name
```

- Remove users from the `sudo` group unless they need to perform special operations

#### Creating a New Group

```bash
groupadd new_group
```

- Create groups for each task and restrict access to files accordingly
  - Groups for working on source/configuration files
  - Groups for working on application binaries/logs
  - Groups for maintaining the server itself
  - Etc

### Setting Up SSH Public Keys for Each Account

1. Ask the user to generate a key following the [generating a key](#generating-a-key) procedure.
2. Receive the public key from the user.
3. Copy the contents of the public key to the user's `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file in their home directory (create the file if it doesn't exist).
4. If multiple users need access to a single account (not recommended), add each public key to the `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file, separated by newlines.

### Deleting a User Account

To delete a user account and its home directory, run the following command:

```bash
deluser --remove-home username
```
